📝 Add blog post about android signing. (#199)
chromeos/chromeos.dev: site/en/posts/android-package-signer.md

---

> title: Introducing Android Package Signer Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introducing Android Package Signer
```

Can drop library here I think

> metadesc: Bringing Android package signing to the browser.

Reviewer: Metadesc should be less of a tag line and more of a short description of the content that follows

tags:
  - technical
authors:
  - nohe
date: 2022-01-26
---

> The Android Package Signer library is a JavaScript library that allows web developers to generate signing keys and use those signing keys in the browser to sign Android packages. This library was built so anyone who runs app building as a service can prevent asking their user to transfer credentials to a third party service. This is part of our advice we provide in regards to [keeping signing keys secure](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#secure_key). This package also helps remove a dependency on Java for developers looking to sign their pre-built unsigned Android packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Android Package Signer library is a new open-source JavaScript library that allows web developers to both generate signing keys and use signing keys to sign Android packages, all entirely in browser. It's design to allow anyone who runs app building as a service to do so without requiring users to upload their credentials, and important part of [keeping signing keys secure](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#secure_key). As a bonus, this package also removes a dependency on Java for developers looking to sign their pre-built unsigned Android packages.
```

Just some nips and tucks to what you already have.

> ## Android package signer and bubblewrap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Android Package Signer and Bubblewrap
```

Title case, and Bubblewrap should be capitalized

> [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/bubblewrap) is a project created to help web developers package their progressive web apps for distribution on Google Play. Lots of third parties have used the bubblewrap project to create their own app bundling service. The drawback to this was that users were handing over their android signing keys and passwords when creating a new project which users were unaware if the servers that they were sending their credentials to were storing their keys or potentially leaking their keys. Having a leaked key could allow a malicious party to impersonate the developer and release malicious packages in place of the android packages the developer originally intended to release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Bubblewrap](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/bubblewrap) is a project created to help web developers package their Progressive Web Apps for distribution on Google Play that a has been used to create as the foundation of app bundling services. Often, though, this meant users were handing over the Android signing keys and password when creating a new project without knowing if they were being stored or potentially leaked. Having a leaked key could allow a malicious party to impersonate a developer and release harmful package updates that would otherwise appear to be legitimate.
```
* Combining some sentences
* PWAs should be stylized as proper nouns
* A little bit of rewording to combine and simplify thoughts

> ## Where can I find this tool and how can I use it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation and Usage
```

> For the latest information on this tool, please see our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/chromeos/android-package-sign-js). To add the package to your project, call `npm i @chromeos/android-package-signer` to add to your project. From there, you can call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Android Package Signer repository](https://github.com/chromeos/android-package-sign-js) is the best place to go to keep up-to-date with the package.

To add Android Package Signer to your project, first install it from NPM:

```bash {title="bash" .code-figure}
npm i @chromeos/android-package-signer
``` From there, require it in your project and initialize it:
```

Reviewer: This is a little funky because of how suggestions work; may need to add a return before "From" to get it to work

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}

> const packageSigner = new PackageSigner(password: string, alias: string = 'android');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { PackageSigner } from 'android-package-signer';
const packageSigner = new PackageSigner(password: string, alias: string = 'android');
```

I presume it's a named export? Either way, need to get it into the code before initializing a new version of it

```

> This allows you to generate a class that can both generate a key and then later reuse that key to sign a package. For generating a key, all that is needed from the class is a DName object. The structure of the DName object we have written below with the signature for generating the key listed below it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will instantiate a class that can be used to generate a key and sign a package with a key. To generate a key, pass the class's `generateKey` method a DName object, structured below.
```

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
export interface DName {
  commonName: string;
  organizationName: string;
  organizationUnit: string;
  countryCode: string;
}

> async generateKey(dname: DName): Promise<string>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// In your code
await packageSigner.generateKey(dname: DName): Promise<string>;
```

This looks like it was taken from the internals; when showing a user how to do something, we should show them the code they'll be writing

```

> The password is a string and should be a minimum of six characters long. This will protect your keystore, so the longer the password, the better. The response from the generateKey function is a base64-encoded der formatted PKCS12 keystore.

Reviewer: This doesn't feel connected to any code we've seen so far, so I'm not quite sure what to make of it. Can you provide a little more context about the password before just explaining it's parameters, and include a code sample, please?

Author: This should have been above this code block

For signing the Android packages, we provide this function signature:

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
async signPackage(
    zipBlob: File,
    base64DerKey: string | undefined = undefined,
    creator: string = `Web Package Signer (${VERSION})`,
  ): Promise<string>;

> ```

Reviewer: * Instead of the passive voice (we provide), use the active voice (use the following)
* The signature is great to have, but having an example of actual usage is super important here, too

> `signPackage` signs a zip file that is read into the system and returns a base64 encoded zip file which the user can write to disk. The base64DerKey can either be used from the previous step or can be read from disk. The creator field is optional since by default it uses this package as the creator string.

Reviewer: This says what the function does, but not what the user gets out of it (if anything). A little more on the end-to-end user experience here would be great.

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
export interface DName {
  commonName: string;
  organizationName: string;
  organizationUnit: string;
  countryCode: string;
}

// In your code
const base64Der = await packageSigner.generateKey({
  commonName: 'Alexander Nohe',
  organizationName: 'Google, Inc',
  organizationUnit: 'DevRel',
  countryCode: 'US',
});
```

The response from the generateKey function is a base64-encoded der formatted PKCS12 keystore. As an example, to save this keystore to a file, download the base64Der string contents to a file. In the below example we use an anchor element with a href attribute containing the base64 encoded keystore. Using the [File System Access API](https://web.dev/file-system-access/#write-file) is also a good solution.

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
// To download the keys.
const downloadElement: HTMLAnchorElement = document.querySelector('#key-gen-results');
downloadElement.href = base64Der;
downloadElement.download = 'generatedKey.p12';
downloadElement.innerText = 'Download Generated Key';
```

For signing an Android package, use the following:

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}

> let fileHandle;
> [fileHandle] = await window.showOpenFilePicker();
> const zipBlob = await fileHandle.getFile();
> const creator = '0.1.0 (Android App Signer JS)';
> const p12b64Der = loadStoredKeystore();
> await packageSigner.signPackage(zipBlob, p12b64Der, creator);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const [ fileHandle ] = await window.showOpenFilePicker();
const zipBlob = await fileHandle.getFile();
const creator = '0.1.0 (Android App Signer JS)';
const p12b64Der = loadStoredKeystore();
const signedPackage = await packageSigner.signPackage(zipBlob, p12b64Der, creator);
```

Two comments here:
* We can deconstruct `fileHandle` directly
* I'm assuming `signPackage` returns something, not just open something to save? If so, we should capture it, and maybe add a little blurb in the description on the next line that they can download the zip the same way they downloaded the key.

---
title: Introducing Android Package Signer
metadesc: Learn about signing Android packages client side in your browser with this new library.
tags:
  - technical
authors:
  - nohe
date: 2022-01-26
---

The Android Package Signer library is a new open-source JavaScript library that allows web developers to both generate signing keys and use signing keys to sign Android packages, all entirely in browser. It's designed to allow anyone who runs app building as a service to do so without requiring users to upload their credentials, an important part of [keeping signing keys secure](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#secure_key). As a bonus, this package also removes a dependency on Java for developers looking to sign their pre-built unsigned Android packages.

## Android Package Signer and Bubblewrap

> [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/bubblewrap) is a project created to help web developers package their Progressive Web Apps for distribution on Google Play and has been used to be the foundation of app bundling services. Often, though, this meant users were handing over the Android signing keys and password when creating a new project without knowing if they were being stored or potentially leaked. Having a leaked key could allow a malicious party to impersonate a developer and release harmful package updates that would otherwise appear to be legitimate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Bubblewrap](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/bubblewrap) is a project created to help web developers package their Progressive Web Apps for distribution on Google Play and has been used as the foundation of some app bundling services. Often, though, this meant users were handing over their Android signing keys and password when creating a new project without knowing if they were being stored or potentially leaked. Having a leaked key could allow a malicious party to impersonate a developer and release harmful package updates that would otherwise appear to be legitimate.
```

## Installation and Usage

The [Android Package Signer repository](https://github.com/chromeos/android-package-sign-js) is the best place to go to keep up-to-date with the package.

To add Android Package Signer to your project, first install it from NPM:

````bash {title="bash" .code-figure}
npm i @chromeos/android-package-signer

> ``` From there, require it in your project and initialize it:

Reviewer: This is what I was afraid of with the in-line suggestion. I believe this needs to be edited by-hand to move this sentence to the next line

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
import { PackageSigner } from 'android-package-signer';
const packageSigner = new PackageSigner(password: string, alias: string = 'android');
````

> The password is a string and should be a minimum of six characters long. This will protect your keystore, so the longer the password, the better.

Reviewer: I think this may read better if it was combined with the "From there…" sentence

> This will instantiate a class that can be used to generate a key and sign a package with a key. To generate a key, pass the class's `generateKey` method a DName object, structured below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will instantiate a class that can be used to generate a key and sign a package with a key. To generate a key, pass the class's `generateKey` method a DName object.
```

Reading this as a whole, I'm not sure this is needed.

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
export interface DName {
  commonName: string;
  organizationName: string;
  organizationUnit: string;
  countryCode: string;
}

// In your code
import { PackageSigner } from '@chromeos/android-package-signer';
async function keyGen(): Promise<string> {

>   const packageSigner = new PackageSigner(password, alias);

Reviewer: Two thoughts here:
* We can assume that a user is following along, so we should re-use the instantiation from the previous code example
* We don't need to wrap everything in an async function to then use. We can just use `async` and `await` as needed for the stub samples to narrow the focus for the reader

  const base64Der = await packageSigner.generateKey({
    commonName: 'Alexander Nohe',
    organizationName: 'Google, Inc',
    organizationUnit: 'DevRel',
    countryCode: 'US',
  });

  // To download the keys.
  const downloadElement: HTMLAnchorElement = document.querySelector('#key-gen-results');
  downloadElement.href = base64Der;
  downloadElement.download = 'generatedKey.p12';
  downloadElement.innerText = 'Download Generated Key';
}
```

> The response from the generateKey function is a base64-encoded der formatted PKCS12 keystore. To save this keystore to a file, download the base64Der string contents to a file. In the above example we use an anchor element with a href attribute containing the base64 encoded keystore.

Reviewer: If it's possible to use the [File System Access API](https://web.dev/file-system-access/#write-file) instead of base64 encoding to an anchor's `href`, that'd be great, and provide good synergy between this use-case and and that one.

Reviewer: I also think this description should come before the code block showing the example to break up the different steps more, especially because this isn't strictly part of the functionality of the library

> For signing the Android packages, using the following should be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For signing an Android package, use the following:
```

Passive to active voice

```typescript {title="Typescript" .code-figure}
import { PackageSigner } from '@chromeos/android-package-signer';

function loadStoredKeystore(): string {
  // returns a base64 encoded keystore that was previously loaded
}

async function signBundle(): Promise<string> {
  const packageSigner = new PackageSigner(password, alias);
  let fileHandle;
  [fileHandle] = await window.showOpenFilePicker();
  const zipBlob = await fileHandle.getFile();
  const creator = '0.1.0 (Android App Signer JS)';
  const p12b64Der = loadStoredKeystore();
  await packageSigner.signPackage(zipBlob, p12b64Der, creator);

> }

Reviewer: Same comment about code sample assumptions as previous code block

```

> `signPackage` signs and zipaligns your android package returning a base64 encoded zip file which can be downloaded and distributed to your favorite Android application stores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`signPackage` signs and zipaligns your Android package returning a base64 encoded zip file which can be downloaded and distributed to your favorite Android application stores.
```
